All right.
Welcome back to another update for Instagram Clone Project.
In this update, I'm going to introduce you to more advanced topics like Firebase Authentication.
We're going to remove the next off package and instead we're going to use Firebase.
If you look at the our firebase and we choose to our project inside the authentication as you can see,
there is no one here to be authenticated.
The reason is.
The next off package use browser to temporarily make session for us and doesn't save the people inside
the authentication of we don't need to save it inside the Firebase authentication but in order to change
the rules inside the.
For example, storage.
As you can see now, the inside, the rules.
Everybody can read and write our.
It's storage.
As you can see, reading and writing is allowed.
But.
If a person.
Is not authenticated.
For example someone comes to the browser can and find the data.
Our data, our API keys.
They can easily use our storage to use for their own projects.
So in order to change the rules inside the storage and also inside the database.
We need to add the people in the authentication part as well.
So as you can see here as well, everybody can read and write our project.
And uh, and also inside the Firebase database, we only have the post collection.
We want to have another collection called Users and whoever sign up in our website, we want to add
it inside this collection.
And later we can use this data to create a specific page, for example, for a user that is posted in
our website.
Okay.
Let's start with that.
If you search for fire, face off.
And in the search result we click on firebase dot google.com for free slash docs for slash of.
And if you go here on the left side.
If we choose Web and inside web, we choose Google.
Now we can see if we can authenticate the person using Google.
We need to import Google off provider from Firebase Authentication and we create a new provider by using
new Google provider then.
How?
We can get the information of the person who is authenticated here by using get off method from five
based off.
And finally.
We can use sign in with pop up method.
To sign into person using the OFT and provider information OC.
And also later we get the result, for example, the user data and if the an error happens, we can
catch it as well.
It's not too complicated.
I'm going to explain it a step by step inside the our waistcoat code and the browser.
Okay.
Let's close this and we go back to Visual Studio code.
And, uh.
We need to go to oath signing.
So inside the pages.
Let me close this.
Inside the pages.
Inside the folder called off.
We go to sign touches.
Now, as you can see, we're using next off to signing the person and also to get the providers.
So we want to get rid of this and we want to use Firebase instead.
So we delete this and also we don't get this provider, so we delete this and this sign should be capitalized.
Capitalized because this is a react functional component.
So the convention is this and otherwise we get an error when we are deploying the website and also we
don't need to use get server side props to get the providers as we are using Firebase authentication
directly.
And also so we don't have any providers, so we cannot look through it.
So we delete this as well and we can delete the key.
And.
Here we have a click on the button which is saying, which is calling the sign in from next off.
But we're going to create our own function.
We call it on.
Google.
Click.
And also here for signing with a provider that name that we don't have the provider, we just make it
Google as we have only one provider.
Okay.
Let's create this function at the top.
Here we create a function and we call it on.
Google click.
Let's go back to.
Our website and go to of.
For slash sign.
In.
No.
We have the same page.
It's working, no errors.
But when we click on sign in Google, nothing happens because the function is empty.
As we want to get the errors as well.
When we are calling the get off and signing with pop up, we can use the try and catch method which
we are getting the suggestion, try catch statement and inside the try we get everything like off provider
and sign up with pop up.
So here firstly we create a constant and we call it off.
And this is going to use to get.
Off method from Firebase for Slash.
Auth.
So if we need to import it here at the top.
So it's just import kit of.
From Firebase for slash of.
So we have the authentication data.
Let me console.log this and you can see the.
What we have inside of.
So let's go back to our browser.
And we open the console using f 12.
I have the console on the right side.
You can change the position.
I think here.
And this is a down this is on the right side.
So when we click on sign in with Google, we should get the.
Off.
Let me see.
Let me refresh again.
Click on signing with Google.
The reason we're not getting off, we didn't import the DPI because they need to have our information
from our
firebase so they know which which DPI they have to check.
So DB is coming from.
We are here.
We should go back one, four, two folders, and here we have the firebase.
That is so two times we come back and then we choose the firebase.
I feel this is going to solve the problem.
Let's try.
You know, we are getting the off.
Okay.
Now, if we open this one, as you can see, the current user is null because we haven't authenticated
person yet.
So let's authenticate the person.
First, we need to bring the provider.
So we need to.
Get the provider.
And this is coming from.
We just need to create a new Google of provider which is coming from Firebase for slash off.
So this we get the auto import as well.
Now we have the provider.
We have the off.
So now we can sign up the person with pop up methods.
So we just need to wait and use sign in with pop up, which is coming from Firebase for Slash off as
well.
And this is going to take two things.
First is off and the next one is provide.
Okay, let's try this.
But before trying it, because we are using a weight, we need to change this function to a synchronous.
Okay.
Let's try it now.
So when we click on signing with Google, the window should pop up.
So as you can see here.
We need to sign it with one of our Gmail accounts or choose, for example, this one.
No.
If you check the off the console log.
Inside the current user.
We have a user now.
If you open it and we go to provider data.
We open the first array.
We get all the information we need.
For example, display name, email, photo URL, and also the unique ID.
And also if you go back to.
If Firebase and we go to authentication, we see the person inside this, the email, the provider name,
which is Google, the created time, the signing time, and also the unique ID that is specifically
created for authentication.
Just be careful.
This unique ID is different from the Google unique ID.
So this one is just a v and.
Here.
Just a number.
We're going to use this one to create the user because this is completely unique.
But.
If you delete this one.
Here and signing the person again, you get a different unique ID, so you have to pay attention for
this one and never create a user inside the database with this unique I.D..
Now it's time to save the user inside the database.
So let's go back to Visual Studio code.
So after the pop up is finished and the person chooses the Gmail account and the person is added to
authentication.
So the off has the current user data so we can save the data inside a constant called user.
And this is going to be off dot.
Current user.
That.
Provider data and inside the first array here.
Now we have the user.
We can create a reference using the the user that uid.
Because we want to create the.
Person inside.
The data added here in this collection, which is called users, this is going to be users.
And instead of getting the random ID, you're going to use the google uid.
So first we need to create an address or reference.
So we call it the doc ref.
And this is going to be.
Doc, which is the Firebase Faster method.
And this is going to take our DPI.
The address for our database.
And then we have the users collection and we want to create the users with the idea of user dot I.
First, we want to check that if the person is existed or not because we don't want to, we want to
prevent the duplication in our database.
So we can get a snapshot.
But just seeing Doc Snap.
And we need to await.
And used to get dark.
So which search for the document and.
With the address of Doc Reef, which we have.
Created here.
No.
We want to check if there is no.
The user with this UUID so we can check it like this.
We can just say docker snap.
We can use exist method.
This is going to give us the true and false so.
If this one is true, the person is existed.
We don't want this if works.
So if it's not existed.
We want to wait and create the user.
We just want to create the user using set dock.
Which is coming from Firebase Five Store.
This is.
I have the address, doc ref.
We have to just create the user with this address and also add these objects.
First, we want to add the name.
So this is coming from user display name.
Then email.
Which is the user.
Dot email.
Then we have the user image.
Which is.
User dot photo URL.
And uid we can save it.
We can use it later as well.
Just say user dot.
You.
I'd.
And the time that the person is authenticated is.
We can just say time is equal and we can use the time stamp.
Several times.
Staff.
So let's call this one time stamp too.
So, tribe.
The stamp.
Which is equal to user or just a server type of step.
And if you remember we save the username as well, but we just use the display name to create it.
So just a user name and this is going to be equal to user display name.
We copy this.
We split this one.
Buy this space and join it.
Again.
So we join it, we dot space and finally we want to change it to lower lower case by using to local
lowercase.
That's okay.
Let's.
Let's test this.
So now we don't have any users here.
Let's try to sign up.
Let's try sign up with another Gmail account.
Okay.
Let's test that first.
Inside authentication, we have the new person.
And inside the Firebase database now we have a new collection called Users.
Which is created by the user ID or unique ID of Google.
And we have the data like Gmail.
Name the username timestamp.
Use a unique ID which is similar to this.
And user image.
So everything we need.
It's at it lets signing with the other account.
But this one.
So a new person should be added.
Now we have the two two Gmail accounts here.
All the information.
So after this one happens, I want to redirect the person to the home page.
In order to do that, we can just use the user router method from next.
Router.
So we need to import.
Use.
Router.
From next router.
And we need to initialize it here.
We just say router is equal to use router.
Then after everything's happened.
Let's get rid of this console.log.
And here we just use router dot push and we just choose the home page.
That's right.
Now.
So we sign in the person.
For example, this guy.
And we are redirected to the homepage.
So now the person is authenticated.
But still you can see that we are not signed in because all every component is using next of a package
instead.
So we need to change all of them and get the.
Data from the Firebase authentication, but we don't want to do it many times.
We just want to do it in a one component and we save the user inside a global state using recoil as
the header.
Is always there and is.
If we add more page, we always have the header.
We can get the information inside the header, we check the user and inside that we can save it to the
global state.
And also in other components like the stories post and the here, the mini profile, we can just get
the user from the global state.
So we don't need to use use effect all the time.
The only thing left is just the we catch the arrows.
So we later we're going to use a package called testify and we can toast it like a notification in our
website.
So if any error happens, but just for now, we can still log the error.
Now we need to go to the.
The components and we go to header and inside here we're going to get the authentication information
and add it to our global state.
All right, so let's get off.
Get rid of the next off here.
So we don't want to use use session, sign in and sign out.
We're going to use fire days instead.
So we delete this.
We delete this session.
Then.
We need to create a user state.
So to use effect to get the on off state change.
So I'll show you in a second.
So here we just create a use.
Affect.
Just coming from React.
Uh, we don't need to import react actually.
So use effects from React and.
We need to have a function here and.
We need to add a dependency.
So this dependency means one time bronze when the page refresh.
So that's what we need.
We need each time check that if it a person is still authenticated or not.
And, uh.
We need to get off.
Which is coming from get off.
From five based off.
Then.
We are going to use a method called on of state change.
From fire.
Base auth.
This one is going to give us firstly gets the off so we know which one to check and this is the give.
This is going to give us the user.
And if the user exists.
We want to
we want to fetch the user from the database.
So we need to create a function.
To fetch the user, but because the function is a synchronous.
We need to use a weight for the function.
For example for that snapshot or using get doc.
So because we cannot change the use effect to a synchronous, we need to create a function here.
A synchronous function, for example, we call it fetch.
User.
And this is going to be a synchronous.
But you're going to call it here.
Call this.
Function.
Okay?
And in this case, we can use a weight.
First we need to get a reference, as we did before.
So we just say dock for the address and the address.
If you remember, we're using dock from Firebase Forest Store, which gets a DPI and a user collection
and we need to add the user ID.
Uh, if you're.
We can get the user.
From this off we can get the user so we just say cons.
Off.
Sorry.
User is a user.
Or you can get the uid directly.
We just say off the current user dot provider data.
And the first array.
And inside this week I want to get the user ID.
So we can use this one here.
Okay.
Now we have the dock ref.
We can now.
Get the snapshot.
I get the document.
So just the cons doc snap which is going to be a weight because the git doc needs a weight and it's
good.
Dark is coming from firebase.
File store.
Which gets to this reference.
Okay.
Now we can check if the person is existed.
Again.
We just said, Doc, snap dot.
This is just a double check because we have already know that the user is existed.
So just say if the person exists.
Then we want to save this information, the user data.
To a global state.
So let's create a global state here.
So it's going to be this, we call it.
Current user.
And they use the set current user to change it.
And this is going to be equal use recoil estate.
But the initial value is the.
We have to define it inside the atom.
So initial value here, we need to create another file called user atom JS and this is going to be similar
to the model atom.
So we copy this.
Okay.
So we have imported atom.
From Recoil.
The name is User State.
The key is user state and the default value is null, which means no user.
Now we can.
Important here.
So we just say user state which is coming from atom user at.
They have imported here.
Now we can.
This is now null.
We can use set current user.
Here to set it to the current user that we got from the document.
We can do it by just say doc, snap.
That data.
Okay.
Now we have the current user in the global state.
So let me console.log and you see the results.
So if you console.log current.
User.
I was still getting an error because we use this session so let's change them.
Lets me search for session and anywhere we have session we should change it to current user because
session was from next off package.
Now we are getting this global estate.
So here in this image source, we should choose current user, we can protect it and instead of image
we save it.
I think user img.
And we don't have any session anymore.
But.
Sign out on signing.
We should create a use firebase instead because sign out and signing this sign or signing was from next
off package.
So for the sign out, we create a function called on sign out.
And for the site end, we just we can just redirect the person to the sign in page.
So we can just use the router.
So we just say rather dot push.
And this is going to off sign.
Sign it.
Let me just see that we have router here or not.
We already have routers so we can use it and let's create the sign out function as well.
So we create a function and we call it on sign out.
This is going to use the sign out method from Firebase or slash off which coins which is which it gets
off.
And.
Okay.
And after that, we need to set the current user to know when after sign out.
Let's try this.
So deep is not defined.
So we need to import DP as well.
We chose to import DP.
From Firebase.
It's already signing.
It's working so we can click on the person and sign out.
As you can see, the set up is not the font that I was a little bit suspicious about this.
So I was thinking a little bit we need because it's this one is inside use effect we need to bring this
outside.
And.
I can't find.
Let's click again now via sign out.
Let's sign in again.
The.
Okay.
Because the is no person.
So the current user is not accessed.
So we need to protect this.
Okay.
Now we are in the signing page.
Let's sign in.
Request action is invalid.
Let's try again.
Let me see.
I think.
Let's try refresh the page.
Now it's working.
I think we need to refresh the page.
So now we go to my Gmail account, for example, this one.
We should see it quick.
Yeah.
What's this error?
Can I see the property of.
So let's go to header 23.
That's because the user ID is sometimes is not defined.
So we get an error.
Now let's console.log a user here.
I want to see what's inside.
User Maybe we don't need even to.
Use to get it us.
So just cancel console.log user.
And we call it user.
Okay.
Let's try this.
The user.
As it has, actually.
Let's see.
It has the offline side, actually.
Let's sign out the person and then we see the new one.
That's enough.
Okay.
So instead of getting the user ID from here, we can get rid of this and we just say user dot off.
Dot's current user dot.
Provider.
Let me check again.
It's signing.
Now that's.
Same error.
I want to see the user.
This is the user.
So we have the.
Off and off.
We have current users.
Then we have provider data.
And the first array we have the user ID.
So.
Provider date.
So provider data, the first one.
Okay.
Let's try again now.
So sign out.
The user is null.
Sign in.
Okay.
Signed in.
Let's see the user.
Okay.
Now.
They have the user and there's no error.
Actually, it's just a fish the page.
Provide data.
You have imported stock, imported, uh, everything.
Uh, should be okay.
It's signed in.
Still doesn't work.
Let me see.
What's the problem?
So we got the DP.
And then we have the users and this is a user ID.
Oh.
Actually, we should add the user ID at the end.
Okay.
So that was the problem.
So let's try again.
Now we see the person now signing again.
It should work.
You're getting the same thing.
But are getting the person at the top.
Let's see.
We have access to the user here.
It's just console.log.
Let's delete the console log here and.
That's costs a lot the user.
Okay.
Let's try this.
Start fresh.
No, no, no.
We didn't.
We didn't get any.
Just check the console.
A child should have a key.
That's not important.
So.
Okay.
We are getting a user here.
If a site out.
If you don't have access.
So we don't have to use a sign and.
No, we're not getting an error.
I don't know what happened.
We have the user data.
Okay.
Let's continue.
If we get the same error, are going to check it.
But, uh.
I don't know.
Let's refresh.
That's okay.
Now.
Now after the header we can change the, for example, post component, a storage component and also
the menu profile on the right side.
But this time we don't need to use a user effect to fetch the data.
We can just use the global estate you current user to get the current user and show it inside the post
and etc..
So let's go back to Visual Studio code and inside post Dutch as.
At first we just get rid of the use session and the session from next of package and here.
Instead we just get the current user.
Which is coming.
We can get it from use.
Recoil state.
Which is from recoil.
And also we need to import user status for which is user atom, which is coming from user at.
Okay.
Now we have the current user.
We just need to replace current user.
Uh, it's just, uh, replace a session anywhere.
We have session.
We change it to current user.
So this is going to be current user B protected user ID.
Here as well.
We have.
But this this one at this one is to use a name.
Let's check.
They have.
Yeah.
So we don't need to next off package anymore.
And the image is the user image.
Okay.
Let's check the next one here, which is, say, current user.
And.
They have here current user.
So we don't have any session.
Let's see if.
Let's go to.
Now.
Now, actually, now we can like.
And leave a comment like somebody just said.
Tax.
Och, amazing.
That does it for the post.
Section.
Let's do the menu profile and the feed section.
So we just need to go to feed the cheese.
Here we get rid of the next off and the session.
And here we just need to.
Get the.
Current user, you just say current user, which is equal to use.
Recoil.
The state, which is coming from recoil and we need to get the initial value from the atom, user,
atom and everywhere.
We should just replace this session.
So here is session.
Just replace it.
Current user.
Next place.
Oh, we don't have anything else.
That's fine.
Let's see.
Now we have this part.
Now let's go to menu for file.
So let's first get rid of this session.
And next off.
And let's bring the.
Current user.
Using use.
Recoil states.
Just coming from recoil and the initial value is user state which is come from user atom.
So let's.
Let's change the situation here.
So at this quantity user and this image is user img.
Then we have the username.
Okay, that's finished.
But the sign out, we need to use the firebase instead.
So just change this one to on sign out and we create the function at the top.
So here we create a function, we call it on sign out and this is going to call the sign out method
from Firebase Off, which is going to get off and we need to create the off here as well.
So we just say off equals to get off from Firebase Off now we need to call it.
And after that we need to set the current user.
We need to bring it here.
Set.
Current user, we set the current user to NULL.
Okay.
Let's try.
So looks okay.
Let's sign out.
Okay.
It's working.
Sign in again.
Okay.
Let's try this account.
It's showing correctly and also in the post Mr. can like this like that's fine.
The next part is this story section.
So let's go to a story that is.
I think here we don't need to any change to stories that are here.
That's the same same procedure.
We just get out of the next off and we just bring the.
Current user from use recoil state.
Which is coming from recoil.
And the initial value is the user state, which is coming from user atom.
And anywhere we have sessions, we change it to content user.
So this is current user protection and user image.
This fund is used.
Everything else is okay.
Let's see.
Yeah, they have the image here.
Yeah.
Uh, the only place is left is this model.
Now.
The model is using the next off.
So let's go to model.
I think it's called a upload model, that is.
And here.
Same as before.
We'd get rid of use session and session and we import.
No.
Sorry, not import.
We just get the current user.
Using use recoil a state which is common.
We already imported.
Yeah, it's quite a state and we need to import a user state for the initial value.
And.
Let's see where we have session here.
We have session.
This font and this is going to be user image.
No, that's finished.
So let's try.
Let me upload something.
For example, I chose this image.
Well, let me try another one.
For example, this one it just say next JS project.
Upload the post.
So now.
Yeah, it's working.
Kind of like it became.
The comment, for example, test.
Okay.
So the only thing that is bothering me is this typo Instagram.
This is inside the index.
That is.
Here in the title.
That was it for this part.
Let's add this one to get her up and deployed again to our final.
Final version, which is instead of version four is the version 400.
Projects.
Dot dot com.
The 100 jazz projects.
So in our final version, we're still using next of.
And still they have the typo and everything.
So firstly we stop the server, we get, we add everything to GitHub, we add a message.
By using git commit.
And the message would be, for example.
It's the.
Update number two.
And the message is.
At.
Fire face off.
Is Ted off?
Next of.
Okay.
And we push it to get her.
Let's go to Verso.
So the search for Pursell records the virtual dot com let me sign in with my GitHub.
So now for instance for a see that just now added a new commit and I think automatically deployment
starts.
So in the deployment tab we are building the website and 22nd test.
So let's click on this.
As soon as it's finished, it gives us the.
Final version.
And also we need to change something here.
So the building finished.
And.
And this is going to be applied to insta version four.
So let's refresh the page here.
Yeah.
It's you can see now we have the new version.
Let's sign in now.
We click our sign in which Google.
As you can see, the error, the reason we didn't get the pop up because we need to add this domain.
We just copy this dummy and we go to.
Often authentication tap into firebase and in signing method.
We should add it here before.
If you remember we went to the console, but because we are using Google Firebase Authentication, we
need to add it here in authorized domains.
As you can see, the authorized domains is just a local host in subversion for Firebase app and also
this one.
So we add another one install version for.
Had it.
Now.
Let's try it again.
Let's refresh the page.
This signing.
It's working.
So now we can put up a sign with this account.
And it's working as before.
Okay.
Yeah.
That was it for the Firebase Authentication.
I hope you enjoy it and learn.
Many things.
If you have any problem of because we have changed many things, you can just go to the page for the
GitHub.
GitHub dot com my name and I think it's in insta.
Version four.
So let's try it.
Yeah.
You can go to the comet and the, the last one which is update to.
And you can see all the changes I have done.
For example, I have created the user at home in the FT that for example, as I deleted the use session
and session and added to use Recoil and I got the current user so you can see the changes.
So if you have.
Any problem of the codes.
You can check this comment.
On it.
And also you can.
Contact me through the Q&A or the comment section.
Okay.
That was the for this update.
In the next update, I'm going to add the rules and also I'm going to create some specific page for
the users and add more functionality to this project.
So see you next time for the next update.